[Music]
take a series of still sequential images
let's look at them one by one faster
now let's remove the gaps go faster
still
wait for it
BAM motion why is that intellectually we
know we're just looking at a series of
still images but when we see them change
fast enough they produce the optical
illusion of appearing as a single
persistent image that's gradually
changing form and position this effect
is the basis for all motion picture
technology from our LED screens of today
to their 20th century cathode ray
forbears from cinematic film projection
to the novelty toy even it's been
suggested all the way back to the Stone
Age when humans began painting on cave
walls this phenomenon of perceiving
apparent motion in successive images is
due to a characteristic of human
perception historically referred to as
persistence of vision the term is
attributed to the English Swiss
physicist Peter mark Rocha who in the
early 19th century used it to describe a
particular defect of the eye that
resulted in a moving object appearing to
be still when it reached a certain speed
not long after the term was applied to
describe the opposite the apparent
motion of still images by Belgian
physicist Joseph plateau inventor of the
FINA Kista scope he defined persistence
of vision as the result of successive
after images which were retained and
then combined in the retina making us
believe that what we're seeing is a
single object in motion this explanation
was widely accepted in the decades to
follow and up through the turn of the
20th century when some began to question
what was physiologically going on in
1912 German psychologist max Wertheimer
outlined the basic primary stages of
apparent motion using simple optical
illusions these experiments led him to
conclude the phenomena was due to
processes which lie behind the retina in
1915 hugo munsterberg German American
pioneer and applied psychology also
suggested that the apparent motion of
successive images is not due to their
being retained in the eye but is
superadded
by the action of the mind in the century
to follow experiments by physiologists
have pretty much confirmed their
conclusions as it relates to the
illusion of motion pictures persistence
of vision has less to do with vision
itself than how it's interpreted in the
brain
research has shown that different
aspects of what the eye sees like form
color depth and motion are transmitted
to different areas of the visual cortex
via different pathways from the retina
it's the continuous interaction of
various computations in the visual
cortex that stitch those different
aspects together and culminate in the
perception our brains are constantly
working synchronizing what we see hear
smell and touch into meaningful
experience in the moment-to-moment flow
of the present so we're in order to
create the illusion of motion in
successive images we need to get the
timing of our intervals close to the
speed at which our brains process the
present so how fast is the present
happening according to our brains well
we can get an idea by measuring how fast
the images need to be changing for the
illusion to work let's see if we can
figure it out by repeating our
experiment here's the sequence presented
at a rate of one frame per two seconds
with one second of black in between at
this rate of change with the blank space
separating the images there's no real
motion perceptible as we lessen the
duration of blank space the slight
change in position becomes more apparent
and we start to get an inkling of a
sense of motion between the disparate
frames one frame per second
two frames per second four frames per
second
now we're starting to get a feeling of
motion but it's really not very smooth
we're still aware of the fact that we're
looking at separate images let's speed
up 8 frames per second 12 frames per
second looks like we're about there
at 24 frames per second the motion looks
even smoother this is standard full
speed so the point at which we lose
awareness of the intervals and begin to
see apparent motion seems to kick in at
around eight to twelve frames per second
this is in the neighborhood of what
Sciences determined to be the general
threshold of our awareness of seeing
separate images generally speaking we
begin to lose that awareness at
intervals of around a hundred
milliseconds per image which is equal to
a frame rate of around ten frames per
second as the frame rate increases we
lose awareness of the intervals
completely and are all the more
convinced of the reality of the illusion
[Music]
you